website/src/content/docs/en/features/circuit-breaker.mdx, before:

---
title: Circuit Breaker & Failover
description: Automatic failure detection and provider failover
---

Claudex includes a built-in circuit breaker for each provider profile, with automatic failover to backup providers when failures are detected.

## Circuit Breaker States

```
         success
    ┌──────────────┐
    │              │
    ▼    failure   │
 Closed ────────► Open
    ▲              │
    │   timeout    │
    │   expired    ▼
    └─────────── HalfOpen
                   │
                failure → back to Open
```

| State | Behavior |
|-------|----------|
| **Closed** | Normal operation. Requests pass through. Failures are counted. |
| **Open** | Requests are blocked. Triggers failover to backup providers. |
| **HalfOpen** | After recovery timeout, one probe request is allowed through. Success → Closed; Failure → back to Open. |

## Default Parameters

| Parameter | Value |
|-----------|-------|
| Failure threshold | 3 consecutive failures |
| Recovery timeout | 30 seconds |

## Failover Configuration

Define backup providers in your profile to enable automatic failover:

```toml
[[profiles]]
name = "grok"
provider_type = "OpenAICompatible"
base_url = "https://api.x.ai/v1"
api_key = "xai-..."
default_model = "grok-3-beta"
backup_providers = ["deepseek", "chatgpt"]   # failover chain
```

When `grok` fails 3 times consecutively:
1. Circuit breaker opens for `grok`
2. Request is retried with `deepseek`
3. If `deepseek` also fails, try `chatgpt`
4. Each backup provider has its own independent circuit breaker

## Health Checking

A background health checker runs every ~30 seconds, sending lightweight probe requests to all enabled profiles. Health status is displayed in the TUI dashboard with color coding:

- Green: healthy
- Yellow: degraded (recent failures)
- Red: circuit breaker open

Commit message:

docs: 全面重写网站文档 + 新增 5 页 + 12 语言翻译
- 全面重写 6 页: index, configuration, provider-setup, translation-proxy, cli, config
- 新增 5 页: oauth-subscriptions, configuration-sets, terminal-hyperlinks, model-slot-mapping, providers
- 小更新 6 页: installation, circuit-breaker, smart-routing, context-engine, tui-dashboard, self-update
- 更新 astro.config.mjs sidebar 添加 5 个新页面入口
- 12 语言同步翻译 (en, zh-cn, zh-tw, ja, ko, ru, fr, pt-br, es, it, de, pl)
- 修复 .gitignore docs/ 规则匹配范围 (改为 /docs/)
- 覆盖新增 provider (Azure, Vertex AI, Groq, Mistral, Together, Perplexity, Cerebras, GitLab Duo 等)
- 覆盖新功能 (配置集, 终端超链接, OAuth 详解, 模型槽位映射, config 子命令, sets 命令)

website/src/content/docs/en/features/circuit-breaker.mdx, after:

---
title: Circuit Breaker & Failover
description: Automatic failure detection and provider failover
---

Claudex includes a built-in circuit breaker for each provider profile, with automatic failover to backup providers when failures are detected.

## Circuit Breaker States

```
         success
    ┌──────────────┐
    │              │
    ▼    failure   │
 Closed ────────► Open
    ▲              │
    │   timeout    │
    │   expired    ▼
    └─────────── HalfOpen
                   │
                failure → back to Open
```

| State | Behavior |
|-------|----------|
| **Closed** | Normal operation. Requests pass through. Failures are counted. |
| **Open** | Requests are blocked. Triggers failover to backup providers. |
| **HalfOpen** | After recovery timeout, one probe request is allowed through. Success → Closed; Failure → back to Open. |

## Default Parameters

| Parameter | Value |
|-----------|-------|
| Failure threshold | 3 consecutive failures |
| Recovery timeout | 30 seconds |

## Failover Configuration

Define backup providers in your profile to enable automatic failover:

```toml
[[profiles]]
name = "grok"
provider_type = "OpenAICompatible"
base_url = "https://api.x.ai/v1"
api_key = "xai-..."
default_model = "grok-3-beta"
backup_providers = ["deepseek", "chatgpt"]   # failover chain
```

When `grok` fails 3 times consecutively:
1. Circuit breaker opens for `grok`
2. Request is retried with `deepseek`
3. If `deepseek` also fails, try `chatgpt`
4. Each backup provider has its own independent circuit breaker

## OAuth 401 Retry

For OAuth profiles, HTTP 401 responses receive special handling:

1. The proxy invalidates the current OAuth token
2. Attempts a fresh token load from the credential chain
3. Retries the request with the new token
4. Only counts as a circuit breaker failure if the retry also fails

This prevents temporary token expiry from triggering unnecessary failovers.

## Health Checking

A background health checker runs every ~30 seconds, sending lightweight probe requests to all enabled profiles. Health status is displayed in the TUI dashboard with color coding:

- Green: healthy
- Yellow: degraded (recent failures)
- Red: circuit breaker open
