website/src/content/docs/en/configuration.mdx, before:

---
title: Configuration
description: How to configure Claudex profiles and settings
---

import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Config File Discovery

Claudex searches for config files in this order:

1. `$CLAUDEX_CONFIG` environment variable
2. `./claudex.toml` (current directory)
3. `./.claudex/config.toml` (current directory)
4. Parent directories (up to 10 levels), checking both patterns
5. `~/.config/claudex/config.toml` (XDG — checked **before** platform-specific paths)
6. Platform-specific paths (e.g., `~/Library/Application Support/claudex/config.toml` on macOS)

<Aside type="note">
  The XDG path (`~/.config/claudex/config.toml`) is now checked before platform-specific paths. If no config file exists anywhere, the XDG path is used when creating the default config.
</Aside>

```bash
# Show loaded config path and search order
claudex config

# Create a local config in the current directory
claudex config --init
```

<Aside type="tip">
  Project-level config (`./claudex.toml`) takes priority over global config, so you can customize providers per project.
</Aside>

## Global Settings

```toml
# Path to claude binary (default: "claude" from PATH)
# claude_binary = "/usr/local/bin/claude"

# Proxy settings
proxy_port = 13456
proxy_host = "127.0.0.1"

# Log level: trace, debug, info, warn, error
log_level = "info"

# Model aliases (shorthand → full model name)
[model_aliases]
grok3 = "grok-3-beta"
gpt4o = "gpt-4o"
ds3 = "deepseek-chat"
```

## Profiles

Each profile represents an AI provider connection. There are two provider types:

### DirectAnthropic

For providers that natively support the Anthropic Messages API. Requests are forwarded with minimal modification.

```toml
[[profiles]]
name = "anthropic"
provider_type = "DirectAnthropic"
base_url = "https://api.anthropic.com"
api_key = "sk-ant-..."
default_model = "claude-sonnet-4-20250514"
priority = 100
enabled = true
```

Compatible providers: **Anthropic**, **MiniMax**, **OpenRouter**

### OpenAICompatible

For providers using the OpenAI Chat Completions API. Claudex automatically translates between Anthropic and OpenAI protocols.

```toml
[[profiles]]
name = "grok"
provider_type = "OpenAICompatible"
base_url = "https://api.x.ai/v1"
api_key = "xai-..."
default_model = "grok-3-beta"
backup_providers = ["deepseek"]
priority = 100
enabled = true
```

Compatible providers: **Grok (xAI)**, **OpenAI**, **DeepSeek**, **Kimi/Moonshot**, **GLM (Zhipu)**, **Ollama**, **vLLM**, **LM Studio**

### Profile Fields

| Field | Default | Description |
|-------|---------|-------------|
| `name` | *required* | Unique profile identifier |
| `provider_type` | `DirectAnthropic` | `DirectAnthropic` or `OpenAICompatible` |
| `base_url` | *required* | Provider API endpoint |
| `api_key` | `""` | API key (plaintext) |
| `api_key_keyring` | — | Read API key from OS keychain instead |
| `default_model` | *required* | Default model to use |
| `auth_type` | `"api-key"` | `"api-key"` or `"oauth"` |
| `oauth_provider` | — | OAuth provider (`claude`, `openai`, `google`, `qwen`, `kimi`, `github`). Required when `auth_type = "oauth"` |
| `backup_providers` | `[]` | Failover profile names |
| `custom_headers` | `{}` | Extra HTTP headers |
| `extra_env` | `{}` | Extra environment variables for Claude |
| `priority` | `100` | Priority for smart routing |
| `enabled` | `true` | Whether this profile is active |
| `[profiles.models]` | — | Model slot mapping table (`haiku`, `sonnet`, `opus` fields) |

### Interactive Setup

The easiest way to add a profile is the interactive wizard:

```bash
claudex profile add
```

It guides you through provider selection, API key entry (with optional keyring storage), model selection, and connectivity testing.

## Keyring Integration

Store API keys securely in your OS keychain instead of plaintext config:

```toml
[[profiles]]
name = "grok"
api_key_keyring = "grok-api-key"   # reads from OS keychain
```

Supported backends:
- **macOS**: Keychain
- **Linux**: Secret Service (GNOME Keyring / KDE Wallet)

## OAuth Subscription Auth

Instead of API keys, you can authenticate with your existing provider subscription via OAuth. This is useful if you have a Claude Pro/Team, ChatGPT Plus, or other subscription plan.

### Setup

1. Set the profile's `auth_type` to `"oauth"` and specify the `oauth_provider`:

```toml
[[profiles]]
name = "chatgpt-oauth"
provider_type = "OpenAICompatible"
base_url = "https://api.openai.com/v1"
default_model = "gpt-4o"
auth_type = "oauth"
oauth_provider = "openai"
```

2. Log in with the `auth` command:

```bash
claudex auth login openai
```

3. Check your auth status:

```bash
claudex auth status
```

### Supported Providers

| Provider | `oauth_provider` | Token Source |
|----------|-----------------|-------------|
| Claude | `claude` | Reads from `~/.claude` (Claude Code's native config) |
| OpenAI | `openai` | Reads from `~/.codex/auth.json` (Codex CLI) |
| Google | `google` | OAuth device code flow |
| Qwen | `qwen` | OAuth device code flow |
| Kimi | `kimi` | OAuth device code flow |
| GitHub | `github` | OAuth device code flow |

<Aside type="tip">
  For **OpenAI**, make sure you have the Codex CLI installed and logged in (`codex auth login`). Claudex reads the token from `~/.codex/auth.json` automatically.
</Aside>

<Aside type="tip">
  For **Claude**, Claudex reads the existing Claude Code OAuth session from `~/.claude`. No separate login step is needed if you are already logged in to Claude Code.
</Aside>

### Gateway Auth Mode

When using OAuth profiles, Claudex sets `ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN` (not `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY`) when launching Claude Code. This prevents conflicts with Claude Code's own subscription login mechanism, which uses `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` internally.

The proxy automatically refreshes OAuth tokens before they expire. You can also manually refresh with:

```bash
claudex auth refresh openai
```

## Model Slot Mapping

Claude Code has a built-in `/model` switcher with three slots: **haiku**, **sonnet**, and **opus**. By default, these map to Anthropic models, but with Claudex you can map them to any provider's models.

### Configuration

Add a `[profiles.models]` table to any profile:

```toml
[[profiles]]
name = "grok"
provider_type = "OpenAICompatible"
base_url = "https://api.x.ai/v1"
api_key = "xai-..."
default_model = "grok-3-beta"

[profiles.models]
haiku = "grok-3-mini-beta"
sonnet = "grok-3-beta"
opus = "grok-3-beta"
```

When you type `/model sonnet` inside Claude Code, Claudex translates the request to use `grok-3-beta`. The `/model opus` command maps to `grok-3-beta`, and so on.

### Examples for Common Providers

```toml
# OpenAI model mapping
[profiles.models]
haiku = "gpt-4o-mini"
sonnet = "gpt-4o"
opus = "o1"

# DeepSeek model mapping
[profiles.models]
haiku = "deepseek-chat"
sonnet = "deepseek-chat"
opus = "deepseek-reasoner"

# Google Gemini model mapping
[profiles.models]
haiku = "gemini-2.0-flash"
sonnet = "gemini-2.5-pro"
opus = "gemini-2.5-pro"
```

<Aside type="note">
  If a model slot is not configured, the profile's `default_model` is used as fallback.
</Aside>

## Tool Name Compatibility

Some providers (notably OpenAI) enforce a 64-character limit on tool (function) names. Claude Code can generate tool names that exceed this limit.

Claudex automatically truncates tool names longer than 64 characters when sending requests to OpenAI-compatible providers and transparently restores the original names when processing responses. This roundtrip is fully transparent — no configuration needed.

## Non-Interactive Mode

Claudex supports one-shot (non-interactive) execution for use in CI/CD pipelines, scripts, and automation:

```bash
# Print response and exit
claudex run grok "Explain this codebase" --print

# Skip all permission prompts (for fully automated pipelines)
claudex run grok "Fix lint errors" --print --dangerously-skip-permissions
```

<Aside type="caution">
  `--dangerously-skip-permissions` disables all safety prompts. Only use this in trusted, automated environments.
</Aside>

In non-interactive mode, logs are written to per-instance log files at `~/Library/Caches/claudex/proxy-{timestamp}-{pid}.log` instead of stderr, keeping the stdout output clean for piping and automation.

## Per-Instance Log Files

Each Claudex proxy instance writes logs to its own file:

```
~/Library/Caches/claudex/proxy-{timestamp}-{pid}.log
```

This avoids log interleaving when running multiple instances and keeps stderr clean during `claudex run` (especially in non-interactive mode). Logs include proxy startup, request translation, OAuth token refresh events, and circuit breaker state changes.

## Full Example

See [`config.example.toml`](https://github.com/StringKe/claudex/blob/main/config.example.toml) for a complete configuration file with all providers and options.

Commit message:

fix(proxy): OpenRouter 从 DirectAnthropic 改为 OpenAICompatible
OpenRouter 的 /v1/messages 端点返回非标准 Anthropic SSE 格式
（额外的 [DONE] 事件、citations:null、input_tokens:0 等），
导致 Claude Code 无法正确解析响应，表现为空输出。

改为使用 OpenAICompatible（/v1/chat/completions），通过完整的
Anthropic <-> OpenAI 翻译层处理，与其他 OpenRouter 模型一致。

代码变更：
- handler.rs: 添加请求体 debug 日志、passthrough 响应头日志、
  UTF-8 安全截断函数 truncate_at_char_boundary
- config.rs: 默认 log_level 改为 debug
- 回滚不必要的 [DONE] 过滤和 stream 包装

文档变更（全部中英双语）：
- 所有 OpenRouter 引用从 DirectAnthropic 改为 OpenAICompatible
- 补充 OpenAIResponses provider type 文档
- 更新 Provider Compatibility 表、配置示例、架构说明

website/src/content/docs/en/configuration.mdx, after:

---
title: Configuration
description: How to configure Claudex profiles and settings
---

import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Config File Discovery

Claudex searches for config files in this order:

1. `$CLAUDEX_CONFIG` environment variable
2. `./claudex.toml` (current directory)
3. `./.claudex/config.toml` (current directory)
4. Parent directories (up to 10 levels), checking both patterns
5. `~/.config/claudex/config.toml` (XDG — checked **before** platform-specific paths)
6. Platform-specific paths (e.g., `~/Library/Application Support/claudex/config.toml` on macOS)

<Aside type="note">
  The XDG path (`~/.config/claudex/config.toml`) is now checked before platform-specific paths. If no config file exists anywhere, the XDG path is used when creating the default config.
</Aside>

```bash
# Show loaded config path and search order
claudex config

# Create a local config in the current directory
claudex config --init
```

<Aside type="tip">
  Project-level config (`./claudex.toml`) takes priority over global config, so you can customize providers per project.
</Aside>

## Global Settings

```toml
# Path to claude binary (default: "claude" from PATH)
# claude_binary = "/usr/local/bin/claude"

# Proxy settings
proxy_port = 13456
proxy_host = "127.0.0.1"

# Log level: trace, debug, info, warn, error
log_level = "info"

# Model aliases (shorthand → full model name)
[model_aliases]
grok3 = "grok-3-beta"
gpt4o = "gpt-4o"
ds3 = "deepseek-chat"
```

## Profiles

Each profile represents an AI provider connection. There are three provider types:

### DirectAnthropic

For providers that natively support the Anthropic Messages API. Requests are forwarded with minimal modification.

```toml
[[profiles]]
name = "anthropic"
provider_type = "DirectAnthropic"
base_url = "https://api.anthropic.com"
api_key = "sk-ant-..."
default_model = "claude-sonnet-4-20250514"
priority = 100
enabled = true
```

Compatible providers: **Anthropic**, **MiniMax**

### OpenAICompatible

For providers using the OpenAI Chat Completions API. Claudex automatically translates between Anthropic and OpenAI protocols.

```toml
[[profiles]]
name = "grok"
provider_type = "OpenAICompatible"
base_url = "https://api.x.ai/v1"
api_key = "xai-..."
default_model = "grok-3-beta"
backup_providers = ["deepseek"]
priority = 100
enabled = true
```

Compatible providers: **Grok (xAI)**, **OpenAI**, **DeepSeek**, **Kimi/Moonshot**, **GLM (Zhipu)**, **OpenRouter**, **Ollama**, **vLLM**, **LM Studio**

### OpenAIResponses

For providers using the OpenAI Responses API (e.g., ChatGPT/Codex subscriptions). Claudex translates between Anthropic Messages API and the OpenAI Responses API.

```toml
[[profiles]]
name = "codex-sub"
provider_type = "OpenAIResponses"
base_url = "https://chatgpt.com/backend-api/codex"
default_model = "gpt-4o"
auth_type = "oauth"
oauth_provider = "openai"
```

Compatible providers: **ChatGPT/Codex subscriptions** (via Codex CLI)

<Aside type="tip">
  This provider type is primarily used with OAuth subscriptions. See the [Provider Setup Guide](/claudex/en/guides/provider-setup/) for detailed instructions on setting up Codex CLI.
</Aside>

### Profile Fields

| Field | Default | Description |
|-------|---------|-------------|
| `name` | *required* | Unique profile identifier |
| `provider_type` | `DirectAnthropic` | `DirectAnthropic`, `OpenAICompatible`, or `OpenAIResponses` |
| `base_url` | *required* | Provider API endpoint |
| `api_key` | `""` | API key (plaintext) |
| `api_key_keyring` | — | Read API key from OS keychain instead |
| `default_model` | *required* | Default model to use |
| `auth_type` | `"api-key"` | `"api-key"` or `"oauth"` |
| `oauth_provider` | — | OAuth provider (`claude`, `openai`, `google`, `qwen`, `kimi`, `github`). Required when `auth_type = "oauth"` |
| `backup_providers` | `[]` | Failover profile names |
| `custom_headers` | `{}` | Extra HTTP headers |
| `extra_env` | `{}` | Extra environment variables for Claude |
| `priority` | `100` | Priority for smart routing |
| `enabled` | `true` | Whether this profile is active |
| `[profiles.models]` | — | Model slot mapping table (`haiku`, `sonnet`, `opus` fields) |

### Interactive Setup

The easiest way to add a profile is the interactive wizard:

```bash
claudex profile add
```

It guides you through provider selection, API key entry (with optional keyring storage), model selection, and connectivity testing.

## Keyring Integration

Store API keys securely in your OS keychain instead of plaintext config:

```toml
[[profiles]]
name = "grok"
api_key_keyring = "grok-api-key"   # reads from OS keychain
```

Supported backends:
- **macOS**: Keychain
- **Linux**: Secret Service (GNOME Keyring / KDE Wallet)

## OAuth Subscription Auth

Instead of API keys, you can authenticate with your existing provider subscription via OAuth. This is useful if you have a Claude Pro/Team, ChatGPT Plus, or other subscription plan.

### Setup

1. Set the profile's `auth_type` to `"oauth"` and specify the `oauth_provider`:

```toml
[[profiles]]
name = "chatgpt-oauth"
provider_type = "OpenAICompatible"
base_url = "https://api.openai.com/v1"
default_model = "gpt-4o"
auth_type = "oauth"
oauth_provider = "openai"
```

2. Log in with the `auth` command:

```bash
claudex auth login openai
```

3. Check your auth status:

```bash
claudex auth status
```

### Supported Providers

| Provider | `oauth_provider` | Token Source |
|----------|-----------------|-------------|
| Claude | `claude` | Reads from `~/.claude` (Claude Code's native config) |
| OpenAI | `openai` | Reads from `~/.codex/auth.json` (Codex CLI) |
| Google | `google` | OAuth device code flow |
| Qwen | `qwen` | OAuth device code flow |
| Kimi | `kimi` | OAuth device code flow |
| GitHub | `github` | OAuth device code flow |

<Aside type="tip">
  For **OpenAI**, make sure you have the [Codex CLI](https://github.com/openai/codex) installed and logged in (`codex auth`). Claudex reads the token from `~/.codex/auth.json` automatically. The profile should use `provider_type = "OpenAIResponses"` to communicate via the Responses API.
</Aside>

<Aside type="tip">
  For **Claude**, Claudex reads the existing Claude Code OAuth session from `~/.claude`. No separate login step is needed if you are already logged in to Claude Code.
</Aside>

### Gateway Auth Mode

When using OAuth profiles, Claudex sets `ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN` (not `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY`) when launching Claude Code. This prevents conflicts with Claude Code's own subscription login mechanism, which uses `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` internally.

The proxy automatically refreshes OAuth tokens before they expire. You can also manually refresh with:

```bash
claudex auth refresh openai
```

## Model Slot Mapping

Claude Code has a built-in `/model` switcher with three slots: **haiku**, **sonnet**, and **opus**. By default, these map to Anthropic models, but with Claudex you can map them to any provider's models.

### Configuration

Add a `[profiles.models]` table to any profile:

```toml
[[profiles]]
name = "grok"
provider_type = "OpenAICompatible"
base_url = "https://api.x.ai/v1"
api_key = "xai-..."
default_model = "grok-3-beta"

[profiles.models]
haiku = "grok-3-mini-beta"
sonnet = "grok-3-beta"
opus = "grok-3-beta"
```

When you type `/model sonnet` inside Claude Code, Claudex translates the request to use `grok-3-beta`. The `/model opus` command maps to `grok-3-beta`, and so on.

### Examples for Common Providers

```toml
# OpenAI model mapping
[profiles.models]
haiku = "gpt-4o-mini"
sonnet = "gpt-4o"
opus = "o1"

# DeepSeek model mapping
[profiles.models]
haiku = "deepseek-chat"
sonnet = "deepseek-chat"
opus = "deepseek-reasoner"

# Google Gemini model mapping
[profiles.models]
haiku = "gemini-2.0-flash"
sonnet = "gemini-2.5-pro"
opus = "gemini-2.5-pro"
```

<Aside type="note">
  If a model slot is not configured, the profile's `default_model` is used as fallback.
</Aside>

## Tool Name Compatibility

Some providers (notably OpenAI) enforce a 64-character limit on tool (function) names. Claude Code can generate tool names that exceed this limit.

Claudex automatically truncates tool names longer than 64 characters when sending requests to OpenAI-compatible providers and transparently restores the original names when processing responses. This roundtrip is fully transparent — no configuration needed.

## Non-Interactive Mode

Claudex supports one-shot (non-interactive) execution for use in CI/CD pipelines, scripts, and automation:

```bash
# Print response and exit
claudex run grok "Explain this codebase" --print

# Skip all permission prompts (for fully automated pipelines)
claudex run grok "Fix lint errors" --print --dangerously-skip-permissions
```

<Aside type="caution">
  `--dangerously-skip-permissions` disables all safety prompts. Only use this in trusted, automated environments.
</Aside>

In non-interactive mode, logs are written to per-instance log files at `~/Library/Caches/claudex/proxy-{timestamp}-{pid}.log` instead of stderr, keeping the stdout output clean for piping and automation.

## Per-Instance Log Files

Each Claudex proxy instance writes logs to its own file:

```
~/Library/Caches/claudex/proxy-{timestamp}-{pid}.log
```

This avoids log interleaving when running multiple instances and keeps stderr clean during `claudex run` (especially in non-interactive mode). Logs include proxy startup, request translation, OAuth token refresh events, and circuit breaker state changes.

## Full Example

See [`config.example.toml`](https://github.com/StringKe/claudex/blob/main/config.example.toml) for a complete configuration file with all providers and options.

For step-by-step setup instructions for each provider (including API key links and OAuth flows), see the [Provider Setup Guide](/claudex/en/guides/provider-setup/).
